TITLE: Microsoft (MSFT) Gets $600 Price Target—Oppenheimer Calls It a Long-Term AI Winner
SOURCE: Yahoo Entertainment
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/microsoft-msft-gets-600-price-104121525.html

Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) is one of the AI Stocks Making Waves on Wall Street. On July 9, Oppenheimer upgraded the stock to Outperform from Perform with a $600 price target.
We upgrade MSF… [+1751 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) is one of the AI Stocks Making Waves on Wall Street. On July 9, Oppenheimer upgraded the stock to “Outperform” from Perform with a $600 price target.
“We upgrade MSFT to Outperform from Perform and establish a $600 PT.”
The firm said that its AI opportunity and sustained cloud momentum are too attractive to ignore.
“In our view, investors’ attention on the ramp of Microsoft’s AI revenue stream will only increase as Azure’s growth remains strong, offering not only valuation support (akin to AWS [Amazon Web Services] underpinning Amazon’s valuation), but also upside potential as this revenue stream continues scaling fast and investors embrace Microsoft as one of the long-term AI winners in software.” -Analysts led by Brian Schwartz.
The analysts also highlighted that Microsoft’s sustaining growth in its AI business or reacceleration in Azure’s growth in fiscal 2026 is not fully reflected in the stock.
They also said that “Microsoft is one of only a few vendors in the software industry capable of delivering a Rule of 60 business profile and at unprecedented scale, which we think lends good support to premium multiples.”
Owing to scaling Azure business and accelerating AI adoption across industries, the firm expects Microsoft to be “one of the long-term AI winners in software.”
Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) provides AI-powered cloud, productivity, and business solutions, focusing on efficiency, security, and AI advancements.
While we acknowledge the potential of MSFT as an investment, we believe certain AI stocks offer greater upside potential and carry less downside risk. If you're looking for an extremely undervalued AI stock that also stands to benefit significantly from Trump-era tariffs and the onshoring trend, see our free report on the best short-term AI stock.
READ NEXT: 10 Trending AI Stocks on News and Ratings and 10 AI Stocks Investors Are Watching This Week.
Disclosure: None.