TITLE: The Amazfit Active 2, one of our favorite fitness trackers, is just $79.99 right now
SOURCE: The Verge
URL: https://www.theverge.com/tech/700959/amazon-prime-day-amazfit-active-2-fitness-tracker-deal-sale-2025

If you’re looking for a budget-friendly smartwatch that doesn’t skimp on features, the Amazfit Active 2 is one of the best Prime Day deals you’ll find. Normally $99.99, it was already a great deal in… [+2091 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
From AI-powered tools to offline maps, the wearable offers an impressive feature set for its price.
From AI-powered tools to offline maps, the wearable offers an impressive feature set for its price.
If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement.
If you’re looking for a budget-friendly smartwatch that doesn’t skimp on features, the Amazfit Active 2 is one of the best Prime Day deals you’ll find. Normally $99.99, it was already a great deal in and of itself, but right now it’s practically a steal starting at $79.99 ($20 off) directly from Amazfit and Amazon, which is a new low price.
Unlike most budget smartwatches, the Active 2 actually looks and feels premium with its stainless steel case and tempered glass. For an additional $50, you can upgrade to a version with sapphire crystal and an extra leather strap. During testing, my colleague Victoria Song says she received compliments, something she rarely gets for a budget smartwatch.
The Amazfit Active 2 delivers outsized value for the price. It looks spiffy and has a wide array of health tracking features, plus built-in GPS and AI chatbots to provide extra context to your data. Read our review.
The platform-agnostic watch also offers a number of health and fitness tracking features that are rare to find at this price point, which is why it’s one of our favorite wearables. It covers all the basics and then some, ranging from continuous heart rate monitoring and blood oxygen rate to daily readiness scores and detailed sleep tracking. It also supports over 160 activity modes and boasts offline maps with turn-by-turn directions, while providing access to all five major GNSS satellite systems for more accurate location tracking (though not dual-frequency GPS).
What also sets the Active 2 apart is its suite of AI tools. The on-device Zepp Flow assistant lets you control settings and ask simple questions, while the optional Zepp Aura AI chatbot ($77 per year) provides personalized insights into your sleep and readiness metrics. There’s also Zepp Coach, which can create training plans tailored to your goals.
You won’t find some advanced health features like EKGs, but still, the Amazfit Active 2 offers far more than you’d expect at this price. For anyone looking for a stylish, feature-packed smartwatch without a premium price, this Prime Day deal is hard to beat.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.