TITLE: Hot Measles Summer
SOURCE: Slate Magazine
URL: https://slate.com/podcasts/what-next-tbd/2025/07/measles-has-a-messaging-problem

Its a record-breaking year for America: weve now had the most reported cases of measles since the disease was declared eradicated in 2000.
How did public health backslide so hard that it undid decad… [+475 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Why the next few months are crucial for containing the outbreak.
Choose your preferred player:
For questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus feed, check our FAQ.
Please enable javascript to get your Slate Plus feeds.
If you can't access your feeds, please contact customer support.
Thanks! Check your phone for a link to finish setting up your feed.
Please enter a valid phone number.
Listen on your phone:RECOMMENDED
Enter your phone number and we'll text you a link to set up the
        podcast in your app:
We'll only text you about setting up this podcast, no spam.
Listen on your computer:
Apple Podcasts will only work on MacOS operating systems since Catalina. We do not support Android apps on desktop at this time.
Listen on your device:RECOMMENDED
These links will only work if you're on the device you listen to podcasts on.
Set up
          manually:
How does this work?
We are showing you options for a computer but if you're on a phone or tablet
We are showing you options for a phone or a tablet but if you're on a computer,
          click here. If you still have questions about subscriptions or your Slate Plus Feed,  check our FAQ.
Loading...
We're sorry, but something went wrong while fetching your podcast feeds. Please contact us at plus@slate.com for help.
It’s a record-breaking year for America: we’ve now had the most reported cases of measles since the disease was declared “eradicated” in 2000.
How did public health backslide so hard that it undid decades of progress—and is there any hope we can get back on track?
Guest: Dylan Scott, senior health correspondent at Vox.
Want more What Next TBD? Subscribe to Slate Plus to access ad-free listening to the whole What Next family and all your favorite Slate podcasts. Subscribe today on Apple Podcasts by clicking “Try Free” at the top of our show page. Sign up now at slate.com/whatnextplus to get access wherever you listen.
Podcast production by Evan Campbell and Patrick Fort.
Who’s ready for the Red Planet?
Every Friday, Slate’s popular daily news podcast What Next brings you TBD, a clear-eyed look into the future. From fake news to fake meat, algorithms to augmented reality, Lizzie O’Leary is your guide to the tech industry and the world it’s creating for us to live in.
Cheyna Roth is a senior producer at Slate working on shows like Political Gabfest, The Waves, and more. She is also the author of two true crime books.