TITLE: Ken Paxton's Wife Files for Divorce 'on Biblical Grounds'
SOURCE: Jezebel
URL: https://www.jezebel.com/ken-paxton-tktk

Welcome back to Barf Bag.
Well, the Texas Senate primary just got a lot more interesting. On Thursday, state Senator Angela Paxton announced that she had filed for divorce from her husband, Attorney… [+5847 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Welcome back to Barf Bag.
Well, the Texas Senate primary just got a lot more interesting. On Thursday, state Senator Angela Paxton announced that she had filed for divorce from her husband, Attorney General Ken Paxton. AG Paxton, you’ll recall, is a big anti-abortion freak.
Angela wrote on social media that she was seeking a divorce “on biblical grounds.” She added, “I believe marriage is a sacred covenant and I have earnestly pursued reconciliation. But in light of recent discoveries, I do not believe that it honors God or is loving to myself, my children, or Ken to remain in the marriage.” Ope!
Austin NPR affiliate KUT reports that Angela’s divorce petition accuses Ken of adultery and claims the couple stopped living together in June 2024. KUT also notes that cheating accusations aren’t new: “The attorney general has long been dogged with allegations of infidelity, including during impeachment proceedings in 2023 that ended in his acquittal. He was accused of securing a job for the woman with whom he was having an alleged affair.” Angela attended the trial as an elected official but did not vote.
Angela’s unique word choice did at least lead to some good jokes online.
today, after 38 years of marriage, I filed for divorce on biblical grounds (she ate an apple)
— Tequila Mockingbird (@xanindigo.bsky.social) 2025-07-11T01:50:26.496Z

As for Ken’s own statement on the matter, he wrote: “After facing the pressures of countless political attacks and public scrutiny, Angela and I have decided to start a new chapter in our lives. I could not be any more proud or grateful for the incredible family that God has blessed us with, and I remain committed to supporting our amazing children and grandchildren. I ask for your prayers and privacy at this time.”
The duo used to be ride or dies, with Angela helping Ken drive a getaway car to help him dodge a subpoena in 2022. When a process server tried to serve Ken at their home with a subpoena to testify in an abortion case, Angela drove them both away in a truck.
Now onto the 2026 Senate primary. Paxton is running against incumbent Sen. John Cornyn. Establishment GOP folks want Cornyn to win, while MAGA types favor Paxton—and he is leading in the polls by double digits.
Notably, the GOP campaign arm for the upper chamber, the National Republican Senatorial Committee, took a big swipe at Paxton after the news broke. NRSC communications director Joanna Rodriguez wrote on Twitter that Paxton’s actions were “truly repulsive and disgusting.” (Uh, now I’m left wondering if this was a garden-variety affair or not.) The group, which generally supports incumbents, has already endorsed Cornyn, but the statement is still notable given Paxton’s apparent popularity.
What Ken Paxton has put his family through is truly repulsive and disgusting.
No one should have to endure what Angela Paxton has, and we pray for her as she chooses to stand up for herself and her family during this difficult time. https://t.co/OiEtOlKRVL
— Joanna Rodriguez (@joannamrod) July 10, 2025

Aides to Donald Trump have reportedly said the president won’t get involved in the race until he sees if Cornyn can close his polling gap. Both campaigns believe a Trump endorsement will make or break them, so now we get to wait and see who Trump blesses.
Former Rep. Colin Allred is again running for the Democratic nomination, and some believe that Paxton would be a weak enough candidate for the state to flip blue, but I’m not holding my breath.
Trump-related barf:
This has been your weekly Barf Bag, thanks for reading!
GET JEZEBEL RIGHT IN YOUR INBOX
Still here. Still without airbrushing. Still with teeth.

Sign
    Up