TITLE: Gallery: Tim Cook and Eddy Cue attend Sun Valley ‘summer camp for billionaires’
SOURCE: 9to5Mac
URL: https://9to5mac.com/2025/07/11/gallery-tim-cook-and-eddy-cue-attend-sun-valley-summer-camp-for-billionaires/

As is tradition, Apple CEO Tim Cook is in attendance at the Sun Valley Conference in Idaho this week. The event, commonly referred to as a summer camp for billionaires, attracts executives across med… [+1747 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
As is tradition, Apple CEO Tim Cook is in attendance at the Sun Valley Conference in Idaho this week. The event, commonly referred to as a “summer camp for billionaires,” attracts executives across media, tech politics, and many other sectors. The conference has taken place in Sun Valley, Idaho for one week each July since 1983
This year, Cook is in attendance alongside Apple’s services boss Eddy Cue.
Cook is a regular at the Allen & Company Sun Valley Conference, attending many times over the last two decades. The conference is notoriously secretive and we rarely learn anything about what goes on behind closed doors. In 2022, Cook took a ride in a Rivian R1T electric pickup truck at Sun Valley – an escapade that made headlines
It has, however, the place where many of the biggest media and tech acquisitions have been brokered over the years. That includes Verizon’s acquisition of Yahoo, Jeff Bezos acquiring The Washington Post, and Disney’s purchase of ABC.
This year, Cook has been pictured mingling with Jeffrey Katzenberg, the media mogul who previously served as chairman of Walt Disney Studios and co-founded DreamWorks Pictures. His most recent venture was Quibi, the short-form video streaming service that imploded six months after launch. Katzenberg is also a major player in the Democratic party, serving as the co-chair of Joe Biden’s 2024 campaign and subsequently Kamala Harris’s 2024 campaign.
Another notbale attendees at Sun Valley this year include OpenAI’s Sam Altman, Google’s Sundar Pichai, Spotify’s Daniel Ek, Disney’s Bob Iger, Amazon’s Andy Jassy, Rivian’s RJ Scaringe, Microsoft’s Satya Nadella, Netflix’s Ted Sarandos, and many more.
Again, don’t expect to learn much at all about the inner-workings of Sun Valley this year. Check out a gallery of images showing Cook and Cue at the conference below.
Embed from Getty Images
Embed from Getty Images
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
Check out 9to5Mac on YouTube for more Apple news:
The CEO of Apple…
Chance is the editor-in-chief of 9to5Mac, overseeing the entire site’s operations. He also hosts the 9to5Mac Daily and 9to5Mac Happy Hour podcasts.
You can send tips, questions, and typos to chance@9to5mac.com.