TITLE: Apple TV+ docuseries scores 6 Daytime Emmy Awards nominations
SOURCE: 9to5Mac
URL: https://9to5mac.com/2025/07/11/the-secret-lives-of-animals-emmys-nomination/

Apple has picked up six Daytime Emmy nominations for one of its most interesting nature docuseries, produced in partnership with the BBC Studios Natural History Unit. See the categories and watch the… [+2116 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Apple has picked up six Daytime Emmy nominations for one of its most interesting nature docuseries, produced in partnership with the BBC Studios Natural History Unit. See the categories and watch the trailer below.
Today, the Television Academy announced the nominees for the 52nd Daytime Emmy Awards. The winners will be revealed on October 17, a little more than a month after the 77th Primetime Emmy Awards, which will take place on September 14.
Among the nominees is “The Secret Lives of Animals”, a 10-episode Apple TV+ docuseries that premiered late last year. Narrated by Hugh Bonneville (Downton Abbey, Paddington), the show is up for:
The Secret Lives of Animals is Apple’s third collaboration with the BBC’s Natural History Unit, following the award-nominated Prehistoric Planet and The Year Earth Changed.
The series took three years to film, spans 24 countries, and documents 77 species. Here is Apple with some more details:
“The Secret Lives of Animals” utilizes cutting-edge technology to showcase new and remarkable animal behaviors. For the first time, “The Secret Lives of Animals” captures the sounds and vibrations of a unique jumping spider courtship dance, a killifish in Trinidad breathing through its tail when out of the water, and a wood mouse marking its territory with signposts. Witness a rarely seen relationship between a frog and a tarantula, a land lizard that can breathe underwater, and a monkey that uses a bizarre nose-poking ritual as a test of friendship. Each episode focuses on specific behaviors that are pivotal in the life cycles of various animals — from birth and leaving home to raising a family, and from finding food to growing old — highlighting their striking intelligence and adaptability.”
Watch The Secret Lives of Animals on Apple TV+.
Apple TV+ is available for $9.99 per month and features hit TV shows and movies like Ted Lasso, Severance, The Studio, The Morning Show, Shrinking and Silo.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
Check out 9to5Mac on YouTube for more Apple news:
Apple TV is Apple's streaming device that access…
Marcus Mendes is a Brazilian tech podcaster and journalist who has been closely following Apple since the mid-2000s.
He began covering Apple news in Brazilian media in 2012 and later broadened his focus to the wider tech industry, hosting a daily podcast for seven years.