TITLE: Seattle woman arrested, charged in multiple bank robberies
SOURCE: Q13 News Seattle
URL: https://www.q13fox.com/news/seattle-woman-arrested-multiple-bank-robberies

The Brief
Share
A 24-year-old woman is facing multiple first-degree robbery charges over a string of bank robberies in the Seattle area over the past year.
SEATTLE - A 24-year-old woman has been arrested in a slew of bank robberies in the Seattle area, now charged with eight counts of first-degree robbery.
Leena Chang, who was living in the University District, is accused of handing notes to bank employees, demanding cash from their drawers while saying that she was armed.
The backstory:
The alleged robberies and attempted robberies happened at eight locations across various Seattle neighborhoods, occurring between June 2024 and July 2025.
One of the notes Chang is accused of using reads, "I have a gun. Give me all your money. No silent alarm."
An FBI bulletin regarding a Seattle serial bank robber went out in early 2025, which is around the same time when Crime Stoppers of Puget Sound received an anonymous tip which identified "Leena Chang" as the perpetrator.
The tip included information about the prior robberies, along with text that said, "She LOVES that the FBI put out a bulletin on her and has never seemed so proud that the term SERIAL bank robber is what she is being considered and up until the last, most recent bank she did."
Following the eighth robbery, Seattle police arrested Chang near her apartment on the afternoon of July 7.
Officers also say they seized several items that connected her to the robberies, including her shoes, a green bag, pink wallet, a hyper-realistic airsoft gun, a brown knitted head covering and over $1,800 in cash.
Police believed that Chang traveled between her apartment and the various banks via public transit. SPD used video surveillance from buses, Google Maps, Chang's apartment and the targeted banks to match up the timing of the robberies with Chang's location.
According to court documents, the incidents happened at:
Chang remains in the King County Jail on $500,000 bail. Her next court date is scheduled for July 23, where she will enter a guilty or not guilty plea.
The Source: Information in this story came from the court documents filed in King County Superior Court, the King County Prosecuting Attorney's Office, the Seattle Police Department and FOX 13 Seattle reporting.
US Marshals call off search for Travis Decker in Idaho's Sawtooth National Forest
Largest quake yet hits WA's Mount Rainier in ongoing ‘earthquake swarm’
13-year-old hailed as hero for saving boy from drowning in Everett's Silver Lake
No charges for King County, WA Assessor accused of stalking ex-partner
Prosecutors make charging decision for man arrested after Tacoma Amber Alert
Seattle is the most expensive DoorDash market. It's about to get even pricier
Traffic Alert: Multiple highway closures this weekend in Western WA
To get the best local news, weather and sports in Seattle for free, sign up for the daily FOX Seattle Newsletter.
Download the free FOX LOCAL app for mobile in the Apple App Store or Google Play Store for live Seattle news, top stories, weather updates and more local and national news.
All the news you need to know, every day
By clicking Sign Up, I confirmthat I have read and agreeto the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.