TITLE: Prime Day is ending soon, so throw caution to the wind and buy another smartwatch... and another
SOURCE: Android Central
URL: https://www.androidcentral.com/wearables/prime-day-is-ending-soon-so-throw-caution-to-the-wind-and-buy-another-smartwatch-and-another

I am fortunate enough to get to test out various devices, and the more I do, the more I begin to think that one smartwatch might not be enough. I'm not saying you need to own three smartwatches, as t… [+3792 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
I think you should own three smartwatches... or at least two, and Prime Day is the perfect time to get another.
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
I am fortunate enough to get to test out various devices, and the more I do, the more I begin to think that one smartwatch might not be enough. I'm not saying you need to own three smartwatches, as that can be pretty pricey and not everyone has that kind of money. Fortunately, Prime Day is here to alleviate some of that financial pressure, and if you can afford multiple, then I suggest you go for it: one for everyday use, one for the gym, and one for special occasions.
Depending on the smartwatch you own, it's possible that it can play all roles, but some are better suited for certain situations than others. I find myself switching what I'm wearing depending on where I'm going and what I'm doing, which made me realize that it's hard for one watch to do it all.
Here are my Prime Day picks for the three smartwatches I think you should consider.
The Galaxy Watch 5 has lasted me for quite a while, and the Watch 7 improves on everything I love about the Watch 5. You get larger displays, larger batteries, more storage, and more RAM. It hits a lot of the right marks, and even with the Galaxy Watch 8 hitting stores soon, it's still a fantastic buy. Additionally, Wear OS offers access to numerous apps, and features a seamless connection to your smartphone.
The Galaxy Watch 7 is nearly half off with this Prime Day deal, meaning you're spending less than $200 on a damn good smartwatch. Even with the Watch 8 hitting stores, it'll likely go up quite a bit after Prime Day ends, so you should get on this deal soon.
Alternative option: Google Pixel Watch 3 - $349.99 $237.49 at Amazon
✅Recommended if: You own a Samsung phone or other Android smartphone, you're okay with last year's model, and want an all-around good Wear OS smartwatch.
❌Skip this deal if: You want a smartwatch with multi-day battery life and a physical rotating bezel.
The Garmin Venu 3 is an ideal option when you're going to the gym. Sure, plenty of other smartwatches, including Wear OS watches, feature fitness tracking capabilities, but Garmin is among the best of the best. They have fantastic battery life and do a great job keeping up with runners. Weightlifters will also love The Venu 3's ability to automatically count reps and sets. Unfortunately, the UI could use some work, but that's why I only use this at the gym.
The Venu 3 continues to be one of the best all-around fitness watches, which is why it has retained its price all these years. However, any sale is worth taking advantage of, and this $50 discount is as low as it will get.
Alternative option: Amazfit Balance - $199.99 $129 at Amazon
✅Recommended if: You're a fitness enthusiast who wants a smartwatch with great battery life to keep track of your health and activities.
❌Skip this deal if: You're not a fan of Garmin's UI, want access to more apps, or want the level of health and fitness metrics you'll find on a more expensive Forerunner.
This is something of a sleeper hit, because I didn't expect to like this hybrid smartwatch as much as I did. Yes, the Withings ScanWatch 2 is fairly basic in terms of features, but that's actually the point. It's a really good-looking watch with phenomenal battery life, and it's the one I'll wear if I'm getting ready for a night out. The great thing is that it'll still track my steps and other health and fitness metrics, and sync them with Health Connect, all while retaining a classy, non-smartwatch design.
The ScanWatch 2 keeps it classy, but doesn't come cheap. However, a $60 discount is a bit more reasonable for a hybrid smartwatch with month-long battery life, a stylish design, and some useful health and wellness features, such as ECG.
Alternative option: Oura Ring 4 - $349.99 $296.65 at Amazon
✅Recommended if: You want a stylish watch with 30-day battery life that is also capable of tracking steps, heart rate, activities, and more.
❌Skip this deal if: You want a more traditional smartwatch with a large touchscreen and apps.

As I said before, not everyone is in the market to own multiple smartwatches. However, if you already own one and are looking for an alternative, you can always start by adding a second to your collection and going from there.
I find myself mostly switching between my daily watch (either a Pixel Watch or Galaxy Watch, because of apps and smartphone connection) and a gym watch (usually Garmin for extensive fitness/sports modes and accuracy). A third watch is probably the most optional of the bunch, as it's more of a statement piece than anything else. After all, the Withings ScanWatch 2 was the winner of our smartwatch beauty pageant!
That said, if you can find a great smartwatch that can do it all, then all the better!
For everything on Amazon Prime Day, head to our ultimate shopping guide.
Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android
Derrek is the managing editor of Android Central, helping to guide the site's editorial content and direction to reach and resonate with readers, old and new, who are just as passionate about tech as we are. He's been obsessed with mobile technology since he was 12, when he discovered the Nokia N90, and his love of flip phones and new form factors continues to this day. As a fitness enthusiast, he has always been curious about the intersection of tech and fitness. When he's not working, he's probably working out.
You must confirm your public display name before commenting
Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name.