TITLE: Sports fans 'flabbergasted' after Sportsnet announces double-digit price hike
SOURCE: CBC News
URL: https://www.cbc.ca/news/business/sportsnet-price-hike-1.7583342

Canadian sports fans are tearing into Sportsnet after they learned its streaming service will be hiking prices by double digits before the next hockey season. 
Rogers Sports and Media announced in a… [+2269 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Canadian sports fans are tearing into Sportsnet after they learned its streaming service will be hiking prices by double digits before the next hockey season.
Sportsnet, which is owned by Rogers Sports & Media, announced in an email to customers Thursday that it will raise the annual price of its Sportsnet+ premium package by 30 per cent, from $249.99 to $324.99 plus tax, and its standard package by 25 per cent, from $199.99 to $249.99.
The changes will take effect Sept. 9.
Jason Pike, of Halifax, who runs a Boston Bruins fan podcast, told CBC News he cancelled his subscription as soon as he saw the increase.
"When I saw the numbers, my jaw dropped. I looked at my wife and said, 'Sportsnet's going up 80 bucks,'" he said. "I was absolutely flabbergasted. I couldn't believe it."
Many customers have taken to social media to express their frustrations.
Pike says he primarily uses Sportsnet to stream hockey games, and he preferred the more affordable NHL Live streaming service that was discontinued in 2022.
Sportsnet is the only streaming service offering many NHL games through the regular season and playoffs. The standard package offers national and regional in-market games, and the premium package adds about 1,000 games from other markets.
Pike says he'll be looking for alternatives to watch the upcoming season.
"There's a lot of pirate sites out there. I've used them here and there, but they haven't been a big thing in my life," he said. "But now, well, you're not leaving me a lot of options here."
The service carries other sporting events, including NBA games, UFC cards and Toronto Blue Jays baseball games.
Austin Harrison of Red Deer, Alta., who covers the Edmonton Oilers on his YouTube channel, says he "burst out laughing" when he saw the email and cancelled his subscription about two minutes later.
"I thought it was ridiculous," he said.
Harrison laments what he calls the "monopoly" Rogers has on hockey coverage in Canada, but says he'll find other ways to watch the games next season.
"Ticket prices are already crazy, and then [merchandise] prices keep going up, and now the one thing that is pretty easy access ... is just at a price that doesn't make any sense anymore."
He says he felt the price was high to begin with, but paid it because he makes Oilers content.
He also says he's had numerous issues with the streaming service, including lagging and freezing, and would expect improvements to the service to justify a price increase.
At this point, he says there's no way he'll go back.
It’s never been more complicated — or expensive — to watch NHL hockey
"I would expect a lot more from them based on what they're asking consumers to give them in return," he said.
"They could send me a personalized email saying sorry, and give me one free year, and I still wouldn't accept it."
Rogers Sports and Media did not offer a specific reason for the price increase.
"Sportsnet+ is the most comprehensive live sports streaming experience in Canada," a Sportsnet spokesperson said in an email to CBC News. "This update reflects that great value for sports fans looking for the best sports content in the country, while remaining competitively priced with other options in the market."
Monthly rates are also increasing: The premium package will jump from $34.99 to $42.99 plus tax, and the standard package will be bumped from $24.99 to $29.99 monthly.
The change comes after Rogers bought the rights in April to broadcast NHL games across Canada for the next 12 years at a cost of $11 billion.
Its previous deal cost less than half that — $5.2 billion — for the same time frame, and it expires at the end of the 2025-26 hockey season.
Digital Writer
Kevin Maimann is a senior writer for CBC News based in Edmonton. He has covered a wide range of topics for publications including VICE, the Toronto Star, Xtra Magazine and the Edmonton Journal. You can reach Kevin by email at kevin.maimann@cbc.ca.