TITLE: T-Mobile Is Bringing Starlink Satellite Access to Your Phone, Even if You’re on a Different Carrier
SOURCE: CNET
URL: https://www.cnet.com/tech/mobile/t-mobile-is-bringing-starlink-satellite-access-to-your-phone-even-if-youre-on-a-different-carrier/

Going off-grid might soon be a thing of the past, as T-Mobile’s partnership with SpaceX’s Starlink satellite internet service gets ready to launch on July 23. The direct-to-cell messaging service, ca… [+7411 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Going off-grid might soon be a thing of the past, as T-Mobile’s partnership with SpaceX’s Starlink satellite internet service gets ready to launch on July 23. The direct-to-cell messaging service, called T-Satellite, will also be available to AT&T and Verizon cellphone customers.
T-Mobile says its goal is to "eliminate mobile dead zones for good" by way of 657 Starlink satellites that'll be used exclusively for cellphone service. T-Satellite has been in beta testing since December 2024, with nearly 1.8 million users signing up so far.
The direct-to-cell messaging service represents a major step forward in mobile technology: It works with most phones made during the last four years, according to T-Mobile, instead of requiring dedicated hardware. It'll be available to T-Mobile, AT&T and Verizon customers for $10 a month -- or free for anyone on T-Mobile's Experience Beyond or Go5G Next plans.
"At the end of the day, it's nice to be able to send a selfie when you're in a place where there is no coverage, but it's vital to be able to connect to emergency services," Mike Katz, T-Mobile president of marketing, strategy and products, told CNET's Jeff Carlson. "We just think that with a technology like this, no customer should ever be in a situation where they are unconnected in an emergency."
Sadly, T-Mobile has already had a reason to test out this emergency service, when it enabled T-Satellite earlier this week in communities affected by massive flooding in Central Texas. T-Mobile customers in the area are able to use text-to-911 and basic text messaging, and they can receive emergency alerts on compatible devices.
In the future, T-Satellite will be free for emergency uses across the country. The company said 911 texting will be available later this year to "any mobile customer with a compatible device, regardless of carrier or whether or not they are subscribed to the service."
T-Satellite is a partnership between T-Mobile and Starlink that will allow direct-to-cell SMS messaging accessibility in areas where there is no cellular coverage. Starlink has more than 7,000 low-Earth orbit satellites in the sky, and now, 657 of them will be devoted entirely to T-Satellite. The goal is to expand coverage into the 500,000 square miles of the US that traditional cell towers can’t reach, says T-Mobile.
“When you leave the terrestrial network and you go to a place where there's no network, your phone will automatically search for and connect to the satellite network, which is quite different than any other of the satellite systems that are out there that force you to manually connect, and you have to point your phone up to the sky," says Katz.
Satellite connectivity in cellphones isn’t exactly new -- iPhones have had it since 2022 -- but it’s typically been reserved for SOS messaging to connect you with an emergency dispatcher. On July 23, T-Satellite users will be able to send SMS texts on iPhone and Android. Android users will also get MMS immediately, with iPhone support “to follow.”
This means users will be able to send images and audio clips in addition to standard text messages. In October, the service will expand to include data support in third-party apps like AccuWeather, AllTrails, WhatsApp and X. The access takes advantage of hooks built into iOS and Android software, so developers can make their apps capable of sending data through the narrow amounts of bandwidth available via satellite.
This is far beyond what the other phone carriers have launched so far in the satellite realm -- largely due to T-Mobile’s partnership with Starlink. AT&T and Verizon have both partnered with AST SpaceMobile for satellite messaging, and Verizon told CNET’s Eli Blumenthal last year that it’s still planning on working with Amazon's Project Kuiper, which launched its first 27 satellites on April 28, 2025.
“Despite things that our competitors have said, they are way, way behind on this technology,” says Katz.
On July 23, T-Satellite will be available to AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon customers for a standalone $10 per month. But there’s one exception: Customers on T-Mobile's Experience Beyond plan ($100 per month for one line) or the Go5G Next plan will get the service for included in the cost of the plan going forward, and those on the Experience More plan ($85 per month) will get it through the end of the year.
Even if you don’t pay the $10 a month, T-Mobile says 911 texting will be available later this year “to any mobile customer with a compatible device, regardless of carrier.”
If you’re a Verizon or AT&T customer, you’ll have to activate T-Satellite as a second eSIM on your phone to take advantage of the service. You can find instructions on setting up the eSIM here.
Most phones released in the past couple of years will work with T-Satellite. Here are the devices that are currently compatible with the beta version:
When T-Satellite launches on July 23, the following devices will also be compatible:
If you’re anxious to try T-Mobile’s Starlink satellite messaging service and don’t want to wait until July 23, you can still attempt to sign up for the beta. I wouldn’t hold out too much hope, though -- when I entered my information, I got a message back saying, “Due to high demand, we’re admitting beta testers on a rolling basis. Keep an eye out for an update in the coming weeks.”