TITLE: George Lucas Is Coming to Comic-Con For the First Time Ever
SOURCE: Gizmodo.com
URL: https://gizmodo.com/sdcc-2025-george-lucas-panel-hall-h-2000628190

San Diego Comic-Con 2025 just came through with one hell of a top guest: the convention just confirmed that George Lucas will be making his SDCC debut in Hall H this year. The father of fandom, creat… [+2892 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
San Diego Comic-Con 2025 just came through with one hell of a top guest: the convention just confirmed that George Lucas will be making his SDCC debut in Hall H this year. The father of fandom, creator of Star Wars, and the rise of pop culture that gave way to what the convention has become, is in for quite a homecoming.
According to Variety, who broke the news of Lucas’ first in-person appearance, the man behind the legend of Lucasfilm will be taking part in the convention to promote the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art. Opening in 2026 and located in Los Angeles, the museum has been a long endeavor of the filmmaker, and it makes perfect sense to bring the first look to SDCC. Did we mention it’s shaped like a spaceship? It’s still rooted in Star Wars.
If you thought George Lucas showing up at Nerd Mecca of all places was wild enough, we haven’t gotten to the part about who is on the panel with him. Trust us, the crossover of genre masters is astounding here because joining him will be Guillermo Del Toro (Frankenstein), alongside legendary visual designer Doug Chiang, and surprise moderator in Queen Latifah, to expound on the generations of movie history coming to the Lucas Museum next year.
“We are beyond thrilled to welcome George Lucas to Comic-Con for the very first time,” shared Comic-Con’s chief of communications and strategy, David Glanzer, through a statement published in the trade. “Nearly five decades ago, ‘Star Wars’ made one of its earliest public appearances at our convention, along with a booth featuring Howard Chaykin’s now legendary ‘Star Wars’ poster as a promotional item. Now, to have Mr. Lucas return—this time to debut the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art—is a true full-circle moment. His lifelong dedication to visual storytelling and world-building resonates deeply with us and our community, and the museum’s mission to celebrate narrative art in all its forms perfectly reflects what Comic-Con has championed from the very beginning.”
Here’s the official panel description:
Sneak Peek of the Lucas Museum of Narrative Art — Legendary filmmaker George Lucas will make an appearance alongside Academy Award-winning director Guillermo del Toro and Academy Award-winning artist Doug Chiang. The panel, moderated by Queen Latifah, will discuss the power of illustrated stories and the role of narrative art in society. From ancient cave drawings and hieroglyphics to paintings, murals, illustrations, comics, digital media, and sculptures, this panel will delve into the universal language of illustrated storytelling. (Hall H)
So if you thought you were leaving the convention Saturday night or Sunday morning, you were sorely mistaken. There’s a chance you might be joining us in the overnight Hall H line to make it into this unprecedented panel because, as a delightful bonus, it’s being held on the last day of the convention, Sunday, July 27.
Want more io9 news? Check out when to expect the latest Marvel, Star Wars, and Star Trek releases, what’s next for the DC Universe on film and TV, and everything you need to know about the future of Doctor Who.
George LucasGuillermo del ToroQueen LatifahSan Diego Comic-ConSDCC 2025Star Wars
Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
News from the future, delivered to your present.
Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.
Despite how it's always seemed to 'Star Wars' fans, Johnson has no bad blood about what went down in 'Rise of Skywalker.'
The DC film begins with its own version of the crawl, and James Gunn told io9 how it came to be.
Super7 will bring a Godzilla Station pop-up store to Comic-Con, and we've got an exclusive look inside.
K-2SO and Cassian Andor's relationship didn't get much screen time, but the 'Rogue One' star still tapped into unused material to help his performance.
Kenneth Colley, the actor who played the 'Star Wars' icon, has passed away at the age of 87.
Here's our recommendations for the essentials you need to make it on and off the con floor in one piece.