TITLE: Drop Into Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 and 4, Now on Xbox Game Pass
SOURCE: CNET
URL: https://www.cnet.com/tech/gaming/drop-into-tony-hawks-pro-skater-3-4-now-on-xbox-game-pass/

The Tony Hawk games were some of my favorites when I was growing up. The soundtracks helped form my musical taste and the games helped propel me and my friends to learn to skateboard. So I'm grabbing… [+4926 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
The Tony Hawk games were some of my favorites when I was growing up. The soundtracks helped form my musical taste and the games helped propel me and my friends to learn to skateboard. So I'm grabbing my (virtual) deck and returning to some familiar gaps and rails in the revamped Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 and 4, which are on Xbox Game Pass now as one game.
Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, a CNET Editors' Choice award pick, offers hundreds of games you can play on your Xbox Series X, Xbox Series S, Xbox One and PC or mobile device for $20 a month. A subscription gives you access to a large library of games, with new titles, including Doom: The Dark Ages, added monthly, plus other benefits such as online multiplayer and deals on non-Game Pass titles.
Read more: Play Classic Games From the '80s and '90s on Xbox Game Pass Now
Here are the games Microsoft is adding to Game Pass in July. You can also check out what games Microsoft brought to the service in June, like Call of Duty: WWII.
Game Pass Ultimate and PC Game Pass subscribers can play now.
Tony Hawk is back to shred in new areas, perform gnarly tricks and bring you more great music along the way. This revamped version of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3 and 4 also brings new skaters to the roster. Game Pass subscribers who bought the Deluxe Edition Upgrade also get the Doom Slayer as a playable skater and other perks.
Game Pass Standard subscribers can play now.
As soon as you embark on a quest to find the mythical Mana Tree, you discover the world map is empty! So the only way to find it is to explore the world, talk to people and take on fearsome monsters in this remastered, classic RPG. This version of the game also has graphical improvements, a rearranged soundtrack and other modern enhancements.
Game Pass Standard subscribers can play now.
If you enjoyed the remastered version of Legend of Mana, you'll likely enjoy this remastered version of Trials of Mana, another entry in the Mana series. You set off on an adventure to find the Mana Tree and protect the world from chaos. This version of the classic RPG includes graphic improvements, character voiceover support and a new ability system.
Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass and Game Pass Standard subscribers can play now.
The name of this game was enough to draw my attention and the in-game raccoon sealed the deal for me. This party-platforming game has you race against others to see who can get to the end of the level first. But each player gets to build the level as they play. So you can set traps for others -- just make sure you don't take yourself out.
Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass and Game Pass Standard subscribers can play now.
Microsoft is bringing this game back to Game Pass almost a year after the company removed it from the service. In this cyberpunk-themed, Diablo-style action RPG, you control a formerly enslaved worker after the collapse of the megacorporation The Ascent Group. The area devolves into chaos with criminal factions vying for control over the different districts. It's up to you to stop these other factions and uncover what happened to the defunct corporation.
Game Pass Ultimate and PC Game Pass subscribers can play now.
Welcome to the cozy world of Minami Lane! This cute management game puts you in charge of maintaining the titular street, opening new shops and making sure everyone is enjoying their stay in the area. Build ramen shops for the foodies, open book stores for the bookworms and customize the street in whatever way you want.
Game Pass Ultimate, PC Game Pass and Game Pass Standard subscribers can play on July 15.
Microsoft removed this game from Xbox Game Pass in June 2024 but the company is bringing the potty humor-filled game back to the service. You've just escaped an alien invasion and have befriended an alien that's also a talking gun. You and other talking guns -- and a talking, psychotic knife named Knifey -- will team up to stop the invasion of Earth and bring an end to an intergalactic drug cartel.
Microsoft launched its Retro Classics collection of games in May and Microsoft said more than 1 million people have already enjoyed some nostalgic games. To celebrate this milestone, the company brought these five classic games to the collection.
While Microsoft is adding those games to Game Pass soon, the company is also removing six other games from the service on July 15. So you still have some time to check these games out or finish your campaign before you have to buy them separately.
For more on Xbox, discover other games available on Game Pass now, read our hands-on review of the gaming service and learn which Game Pass plan is right for you. You can also check out what to know about upcoming Xbox game price hikes.