TITLE: The original Pixel Fold is over $1,000 off on the last day of Prime Day
SOURCE: The Verge
URL: https://www.theverge.com/tech/705211/google-pixel-fold-prime-day-deal-sale-foldable

Not enough foldable phones are priced for people who just want to try them out without going broke. We used to love pointing readers to deals on the Microsoft Surface Duo, which have since gone extin… [+1656 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
While it’s not as fast or nice as the Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold, it’s tough to beat getting a good foldable at this price.
While it’s not as fast or nice as the Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold, it’s tough to beat getting a good foldable at this price.
If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement.
Not enough foldable phones are priced for people who just want to try them out without going broke. We used to love pointing readers to deals on the Microsoft Surface Duo, which have since gone extinct, it seems. And, the new Samsung Galaxy Z Flip FE? $900 isn’t all that cheap, actually. So, this Prime Day deal on the original Google Pixel Fold will have to do.
The 256GB version is $599.99 at Amazon during a Lightning Deal, down from its typical $749.99 price (it originally sold for $1,799.99). The 512GB model is steeply discounted, too, costing just $40 more at $639.99 from Amazon.
The Pixel Fold, Google’s first foray into the world of foldable phones, features an outer 5.8-inch display and a 7.6-inch tablet-like inner screen. Read our review.
While Google really nailed the foldable with this device’s successor, the Pixel 9 Pro Fold (not to mention, the new Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 blows all of Google’s foldables out of the water in terms of thickness), there’s still a lot to love in the Pixel Fold. It has two OLED screens, one of which is a 5.8-inch 1080p outer screen that runs at 120Hz, while its inner display matches the refresh rate but spans 7.6 inches. You can use the foldable screens for entertainment purposes, say, to make your YouTube window bigger. Or, you can be more productive by looking at two apps side-by-side on the large inner screen.
The Pixel Fold probably isn’t worth the money if you’re on the hunt for your next phone that’ll feel modern for the next handful of years. It launched in mid-2023, and Google’s chipsets have come a long way since then. The Fold will handle many tasks breezily, but I’m not sure that’ll be the case in a year or two. I hope that I’m wrong!
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.