TITLE: Samsung says its trifold phone should launch ‘this year’
SOURCE: The Verge
URL: https://www.theverge.com/news/703753/samsung-trifold-phone-release-date-tm-roh

A concept trifold phone from Samsung Display was shown off at this year’s Mobile World Congress.


Yesterday’s Galaxy Unpacked event came and went without a single onstage tease of the rumored Samsu… [+1385 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
﻿TM Roh teases the Unpacked no-show.
﻿TM Roh teases the Unpacked no-show.
Yesterday’s Galaxy Unpacked event came and went without a single tease of Samsung’s rumored trifold phone, but the head of the company’s phone business says that it’s on the way and due “this year.”
“I expect we will be able to launch the trifold phone within this year,” TM Roh, acting head of Samsung’s Device Experience division, told The Korea Times. While the device is rumored to be called the Galaxy G Fold, Roh said its final name hasn’t been decided.
“We are now focusing on perfecting the product and its usability, but we have not decided its name,” Roh said. “As the product nears completion, we are planning to make a final decision soon.”
Roh wasn’t the only Samsung representative willing to discuss the trifold. Android Authority quoted an unnamed executive who claimed the company has designed the phone’s hardware and could “put it into production,” but that it first has to identify a “purpose” for the new form factor.
“We’ve had a trifold for some time, designed and everything,” the executive said. “So it’s not a new concept to us. What we’re debating is the viability. When I say the viability, is there really a demand for this form factor?”
Samsung previously teased the trifold at Unpacked in January. After it appeared in One UI 8 animation files, there were hopes for a reveal at yesterday’s event, which saw the launch of the Z Fold 7, Z Flip 7, and Watch 8 series. For now, Huawei’s Mate XT remains the only trifold phone on the market.
A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe.