TITLE: I upgraded my Costco membership to shop during its new executive member hours. I felt like I had the store to myself.
SOURCE: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/costco-executive-membership-hours-cost-perks-2025-7

My Costco card.Talia Lakritz/Business Insider
Costco's new executive membership is the TSA PreCheck of grocery shopping, and I'm here for it.
As a frequent visitor of Manhattan's only Costco location, I usually wait in a long line to get into the store first thing in the morning and then stand in another long line at checkout.
When I heard Costco was reinstituting shopping hours exclusively for executive members as of June 30, I was eager to see whether it would result in a less crowded experience. I paid an extra $65 to upgrade my membership from the Gold Star level, and I'm pleased to report that it was absolutely worth it.
Here's what it's like to shop during Costco's new executive member hours.
Other Costco stores in the New York City area are in Brooklyn and Queens.
Costco's revamped executive membership, which costs $130 a year, includes an exclusive hour of shopping on weekday mornings. The stores open at 9 a.m. on weekdays and Sundays for executive members and 10 a.m. for Gold Star and business members.
I normally have to circle the garage a few times to find parking, but arriving an hour earlier than the general public meant that there were plenty of open spots.
As we stood at the entrance, we joked about pushing past each other to get inside first. Clearly, there was no need to jostle for a better spot in line.
When I shopped at Costco in June, I encountered the usual long line outside the store.
Costco executive members get an extra hour of shopping in the morning on weekdays and Sundays, and an extra half hour on Saturdays.
In addition to extra shopping hours, Costco's executive membership includes a $10 monthly credit on orders of $150 or more when ordered via Instacart or Costco's same-day delivery service and an annual 2% reward of up to $1,250 on purchases.
When the line outside the store gets extra long, I've seen Costco employees scan people's membership cards while they wait to allow everyone to enter the store faster. With a smaller crowd, there was no need, so I scanned my card myself.
The aisles were wide open without the usual crowds, and it felt much quieter without the usual sounds of rattling carts and conversation among shoppers and employees.
This earlier hour of store access also seemed well-suited for those who need a more sensory-friendly shopping experience.
Costco's rotisserie chickens retail for $4.99 each and are known to fly off the shelves.
Because the refrigerated section is a smaller room, I've found it can take some extra maneuvering to reach the items inside when the store gets busy.
Only one or two checkout aisles were open for the early hour of shopping, and self-checkout was closed, but I didn't have to wait at all before loading my items on the conveyor belt.
At the Manhattan location where I usually shop, the food court is almost always full of customers waiting for their orders. If I'd wanted to start my day with a $2.99 cold brew mocha freeze or $2.99 smoothie, it would have been a quick pit stop.
I finished my grocery shopping before the opening rush with the added perks of plentiful parking, less-crowded aisles, and shorter checkout lines — all before the store even opened to other members. To me, that's worth the extra $65 a year.




Jump to