TITLE: Oura Ring 4 On Sale for the First Time Ever, Amazon Crushes the Price for Prime Day
SOURCE: Gizmodo.com
URL: https://gizmodo.com/oura-ring-4-on-sale-for-the-first-time-ever-amazon-crushes-the-price-for-prime-day-2000626580

The Oura Ring 4th generation entered the market a few months ago, and it immediately became known as one of the most advanced smart rings in existence. Up until today, there was never a discount avai… [+2574 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
The Oura Ring 4th generation entered the market a few months ago, and it immediately became known as one of the most advanced smart rings in existence. Up until today, there was never a discount available on this product – either on Amazon or elsewhere.
In honor of Prime Day, Amazon is going against the norm with the first-ever price cut on Oura Ring 4: With a 15% reduction on all sizes, you can now buy the Oura Ring 4 in silver, size 10, for $297 from $349. Other sizes are also on sale, but some of them are already sold out.
See at Amazon
Oura Ring 4 is a powerful health and wellness tracker that gives you intimate knowledge of your body and habits. The ring tracks over 30 biometrics including sleep, heart rate, movement, stress, and women’s health metrics. With its advanced Smart Sensing technology, the Oura Ring 4 adapts to your unique patterns and delivers accurate and continuous data around the clock. The ring quietly collects and analyzes your health data, and helps you make better decisions about your lifestyle.
One of the main reasons people are such big fans of the Oura Ring 4 is because of its focus on sleep tracking: The ring monitors your sleep pattern, sleep duration, and sleep quality, and provides you with a detailed report every morning through the Oura app. Whether you aim to improve your sleep hygiene or understand how lifestyle affects your sleep, the Oura Ring 4 provides you with actionable data that is easy to grasp. It also takes your heart rate variability, body temperature rhythms, and even oxygen saturation readings, and presents you with an all-encompassing perspective of your well-being.
With a potential battery life of eight days on a single charge, you can wear it without thinking about needing to recharge it often. The ring offers 24/7 wear without screens and vibration to draw your attention away from your normal daily routines. Its all-titanium build makes it extremely resilient and the redesigned style ensures a soothing fit for day and night wear—even for sensitive skin. Water resistance provides the convenience of not needing to remove it for handwashing, showers, or even swimming.
The Oura Ring 4 synchronizes effortlessly with both Android and iOS devices and is compatible with more than 40 leading health and fitness apps such as Apple Health, Google Health Connect, Strava, Flo, and Natural Cycles. With this, it is effortless to have all your health information in one location and maximize your preferred wellness platforms.
As a part of your purchase, you’ll get a free Oura membership month which unlocks all premium features in the Oura app.
This Prime Day discount is only for Amazon Prime members, and with the popularity of the Oura Ring 4, it won’t stay around long.
See at Amazon
Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
News from the future, delivered to your present.
Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.