TITLE: What Your Poop Is Signaling to You About Your Digestive Health
SOURCE: CNET
URL: https://www.cnet.com/health/medical/what-your-poop-is-signaling-to-you-about-your-digestive-health/

Nobody enjoys talking about their bodily functions, and bowel movements are right up there in the uncomfortable stakes. But once you get beyond the embarrassment, there is a lot that you can learn ab… [+8902 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Nobody enjoys talking about their bodily functions, and bowel movements are right up there in the uncomfortable stakes. But once you get beyond the embarrassment, there is a lot that you can learn about yourself if you know what to pay attention to. How often you poop, how long it takes and what your stools look like can reveal a lot about your health.
Knowing what to pay attention to is important. That's why we spoke with three gastroenterologists about the frequency of regular bowel movements and other indicators to help you understand what's normal and when it might be worth reaching out to your doctor.
Read more: Signs Your Gut Could Be Unhealthy and How to Fix It
You probably have someone in your family (if you're honest, maybe it's you) who's convinced they need to poop every morning. However, a healthy pooping schedule isn't the same for every person. You don't need to panic if you're not one of those people who goes to the bathroom like clockwork after your morning coffee.
Dr. Lance Uradomo, an interventional gastroenterologist at City of Hope Orange County, explains, "The term 'regular' generally means that a person's bowel movement frequency is continuing without any change." In fact, the number of times you poop every week could vary dramatically from other people in your household with no cause for concern.
Dr. Michael Schopis, gastroenterologist and attending physician at Manhattan Gastroenterology, says, "Normal poop frequency can range quite dramatically depending on the person. Pooping anywhere from every other day up to three to four times per day can be considered regular."
As a general rule, Uradomo advises, "Three times a day to three times a week is considered a healthy range." However, the doctor warns, "It's important to recognize your own regular routine so that if the frequency suddenly changes, you can alert your doctor."
Dr. Natasha Chhabra, a gastroenterologist at Gastroenterology Associates of New Jersey, says how often you poop may be less important than whether you're pooping enough. She explains, "Having adequate BMs [bowel movements] with complete evacuation is a great goal, as having a BM is one way our body rids itself of toxins and waste. Some can have a daily BM and still not feel that they have emptied." In other words, having less frequent but complete bowel movements may be healthier than having frequent small bowel movements.
How often you should be pooping may also depend on how difficult it is for you to go number two. According to Schopis, "If it requires lots of straining and pushing to have a bowel movement or it requires you to spend 30 minutes on the toilet, then it's probably better for you to try and poop more often." He says you should introduce lifestyle changes to help induce pooping in this situation. The Mayo Clinic recommends eating high-fiber foods, staying hydrated and exercising as natural ways to prevent constipation.
On the other hand, it's possible to poop too often. Schopis says, "If someone is going four to five times per day, it's watery and with significant urgency, then this person is probably pooping too much." The Mayo Clinic notes that everything from stomach viruses and bacterial infections to lactose intolerance may cause you to poop frequently. Antibiotics may also lead to temporary diarrhea.
Many doctors use the Bristol stool chart to help evaluate the health of bowel movements. The chart is a form scale, meaning that it rates stool based on factors like size and consistency. Bowel movements are rated from 1 to 7, with 1 being the most firm and 7 being entirely liquid.
Bristol stool type 1-2: Rabbit or grape-like droppings that are quite hard and may be difficult to pass.Bristol stool type 3-4: Corn on the cob or sausage bowel movements that are soft and easy to pass.Bristol stool type 5-7: Mushy to liquid bowel movements that may or may not include some solid pieces.
As Chhabra explains, "The middle of the chart (Bristol 3-4) describes a healthy BM, which is generally described as sausage or snake-like." Poop in these categories is also solid, while it may be either smooth or have some cracks on the surface.
A healthy poop in the Bristol 3-4 categories indicates that someone is getting both enough water and enough fiber in their diet, according to Schopis. He notes that this type of stool is often easiest to pass, while "Bristol stool types 1-2 are often hard, pebbly and hard to pass, indicating constipation."
If your poop floats, you could have excessive gas, be eating a diet with high-fat content or have a gastrointestinal tract issue. Your poop should sink more often than not.
You also want to consider the color of your bowel movements. Uradomo reports that "healthy poop can be brown or even greenish but should never be black or contain blood. This could indicate the presence of cancer or other health problems." If your stool is particularly pale, you may want to talk to your doctor about your liver, pancreas and gallbladder health.
According to Mount Sinai Hospital, smell also matters. While poop is never meant to smell pleasant, if it suddenly has a new or particularly foul odor, you could be experiencing a condition like chronic pancreatitis or ulcerative colitis. The good news is that changes to your diet can also produce really stinky stool. So if you just have one seriously bad-smelling BM, it could be from eating or drinking something fermented or consuming a lot of garlic.
It shouldn't take you more than a few minutes to poop. Schopis says, "Ideally, someone should spend 5 minutes or less without any pushing or straining to have a bowel movement." Chhabra agrees, explaining, "Spending more than a few minutes having a BM should raise concern for constipation, particularly if you are straining."
Uradomo offers a little more leeway, saying, "It should take a person between 5 and 15 minutes on the toilet to have a bowel movement." He warns that sitting on the toilet for longer than that can "lead to problems such as hemorrhoids, reduced circulation or pelvic floor dysfunction."
There are several key signs that you may have an unhealthy bowel. These include:
Pain: Frequent pain while pooping may be a cause for concern. This could mean your stool is too hard or there is a larger GI issue.
Blood: Blood in the bowl after you poop may also signal an unhealthy bowel. Uradomo warns, "Blood in the stool can be caused by a relatively minor problem like hemorrhoids, but it may also be an indicator of cancer, bowel disease or major internal bleeding." You should monitor bleeding closely and consult your doctor.
Loss of bowel control: If you experience bowel (fecal) incontinence, you may be experiencing weakened rectal or anal muscles. Muscle and nerve damage resulting from childbirth may also affect your ability to control bowel movements.
Black stool: Uradomo warns that black or tarry-looking stools can indicate bleeding in the upper gastrointestinal tract. This includes your esophagus, stomach and small intestine.
Chronic diarrhea: If you often have diarrhea lasting more than a few days, you may be dealing with irritable bowel syndrome or Crohn's disease. Celiac disease can also cause frequent, pale diarrhea.
Any time you're experiencing painful pooping or the inability to have a bowel movement, it's worth talking to your doctor. The NHS warns that chronic constipation can lead to dangerous fecal impaction, and Healthline recommends seeking medical attention if it's been a full week without a bowel movement.
Schopis says, "If you're finding that bowel movements control your life, either due to lack of frequency or going too much," it's a great idea to see a doctor. Black or bloody poop also signals that it's time for a medical evaluation.
Sometimes lifestyle changes are all it takes to create healthier poop habits. For instance, make sure you drink enough water. Dehydration may lead to constipation or make your stool harder to pass. Chhabra also recommends eating fiber daily through whole fruits and vegetables. She says this "helps keep your bowel movements fuller and easier to pass."
More specifically, Schopis advises people to aim for 2 to 3 liters of water per day and 25 to 30 grams of fiber per day to achieve healthy, normal bowel movements. Aside from this advice, you may want to consider exercising more to help your bowel run smoothly.
You don't need to poop every day, but you should track your habits and notice when there is a dramatic change. Symptoms like straining to poop or experiencing chronic diarrhea are signs that it's time to make an appointment with your doctor. In the meantime, eating fiber and drinking a lot of water are easy ways to help yourself to poop regularly.