TITLE: The best Apple Watch Prime Day deals
SOURCE: The Verge
URL: https://www.theverge.com/tech/698764/best-apple-watch-prime-day-deals-sale-2025

Apple typically doesn’t discount its own hardware, which makes Prime Day deals on its gear so appealing. We’ve rounded up the best Apple Watch Prime Day deals, and we’re particularly struck by the di… [+3165 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Amazon is offering a $120 discount on the 42mm and 46mm GPU Apple Watch Series 10 for Prime Day.
Amazon is offering a $120 discount on the 42mm and 46mm GPU Apple Watch Series 10 for Prime Day.
If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement.
Apple typically doesn’t discount its own hardware, which makes Prime Day deals on its gear so appealing. We’ve rounded up the best Apple Watch Prime Day deals, and we’re particularly struck by the discount on the Apple Watch Series 10. The 42mm aluminum GPS model has dropped to an all-time low price of $279.99 ($120 off) at Amazon and Walmart. If you prefer a larger watch, the 46mm aluminum GPS model is currently on sale at Amazon and Walmart for $309 ($120 off) — another all-time low.
The Apple Watch Series 10 has a larger, wide-angle OLED display with up to 30 percent more screen area. It’s thinner and lighter than its predecessors, yet it charges faster and features the same fitness and wellness features. Read our review.
The Apple Watch Series 10 offers meaningful improvements over previous generations. Both sizes have a wide-angle OLED display that’s easier to view at more angles. The larger model actually has a bigger display than the Apple Watch Ultra 2, but comes in a case that’s far thinner and lighter. Apple says the Apple Watch Series 10 lasts up to 18 hours per charge (or up to 36 hours in low power mode), but thanks to supporting faster charging you can go from zero to 80 percent in half an hour.
The Apple Watch Series 10 can track your steps, movement, sleep (including monitoring for sleep apnea), and overall heart health. It can provide an ECG (electrocardiogram) to check you for atrial fibrillation, and you’ll automatically receive an alert if the Apple Watch identifies an irregularity. A temperature sensor takes periodic measurements for use with cycle tracking and to provide ovulation estimates. The Apple Watch can detect if you fall or get into a car accident, and can contact emergency services if you don’t confirm you’re okay within one minute of getting the alert.
If you wear the Apple Watch Series 10 while exercising, you can choose from several dozen workout types to get an accurate assessment of how many calories you’ve burned. You’ll receive a notification when you’ve hit your daily goal of calories burned. The watch has an IP68 rating and is water resistant up to 50 meters, with a depth sensor that works up to six meters deep. Workout Buddy, a feature that will launch with watchOS 26 later this year, will create an AI persona to provide motivation based on your current and historical exercise information.
The Apple Watch Series 10 is the best smartwatch for most iPhone owners because of its large screen size, light weight, and health tracking features. If you want a model with better water resistance and double the battery life, and don’t mind wearing a heavier watch, the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is available for $649 ($130 off) at Amazon and Best Buy, which is about $7 shy of its best price to date.
The rugged Apple Watch Ultra 2 comes in one size: 49mm. It offers the brightest display of any wearable in Apple’s lineup, along with better battery life and improved performance. It sports Apple’s new S9 SiP, too, allowing you to take advantage of Apple’s new double tap feature. Read our review.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.