TITLE: My Favorite Feature's Back! I Tried Out the New Galaxy Watch 8 and Galaxy Watch 8 Classic
SOURCE: CNET
URL: https://www.cnet.com/tech/mobile/my-favorite-features-back-i-tried-out-the-new-galaxy-watch-8-and-galaxy-watch-8-classic/

You have to hand it to Samsung -- the company has never been afraid to break from the cookie-cutter smartwatch mold. Unlike the predictable updates from its competitors, Samsung surprises us nearly e… [+8372 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
You have to hand it to Samsung -- the company has never been afraid to break from the cookie-cutter smartwatch mold. Unlike the predictable updates from its competitors, Samsung surprises us nearly every year. The new Galaxy Watch 8 and Galaxy Watch 8 Classic, announced at Samsung's Galaxy Unpacked event, blend design cues from previous generations: There's the Ultra's functional, squared-off frame and the romantic elegance of the Classic's physical rotating bezel -- a feature that made me fall in love with Galaxy Watches in the first place.
The company is also stepping things up when it comes to health tools, including several features that I've never seen on a smartwatch, like noninvasive skin analysis and AI-powered coaching for sleep and running. The Galaxy Watch 8 and 8 Classic also have a smarter voice assistant and are the first smartwatches with Google's Gemini AI baked right inside, ready to handle complex tasks.
The Galaxy Watch 8 starts at $350 for the 40mm model and $380 for the 44mm one. The LTE versions are $50 more: $400 for the 40mm model and $430 for the 44mm watch.
The Galaxy Watch 8 Classic, with its rotating bezel and physical crown, comes in a single 46mm size and costs $500, or $550 for the LTE model.
The Titanium Blue version of the Galaxy Watch Ultra is $650, the same price as the original 2024 model. This version gets the same internal upgrades as the Watch 8 lineup, including a 64GB storage bump.
All models are available for preorder starting July 9, and you can reserve early and get $50 in Samsung credit.
The 40mm version of the Galaxy Watch 8 has a new design with a circular screen and squircle frame.
Samsung continues to expand the Galaxy Watch's role as a health and wellness tool, building on existing features like ECG, SpO₂ (shorthand for peripheral capillary oxygen saturation), sleep tracking and its AGEs Index, which reflects your metabolic aging process. The headliner is a new Antioxidant Index, which measures carotene (one type of antioxidant) levels in your skin with a simple five-second press of your thumb on the sensor (no needle needed). Since antioxidants help clear toxins from the body, knowing your levels can offer actionable steps for improving your health. The watch will rate your levels on a scale from low to high and then offer generic recommendations on the Samsung Health app on how you can improve your levels if they're on the lower side. It's important to note that this metric isn't clinically verified and isn't meant to replace a medical-grade test. It's designed to offer a baseline reading that may help you make real-time lifestyle adjustments, but it won't provide the detailed or precise results you'd get from a traditional blood test.
The Antioxidant Index on the new Galaxy Watches.
There's also a new metric called Vascular Load, which measures strain on your heart during sleep. These readings are translated into a low-to-high scale to help you understand how behaviors (like sodium or alcohol intake) may be contributing to long-term heart disease risk.
Sleep tracking gets a serious upgrade, too. A new Bedtime Guidance tool uses a three-day analysis of your circadian rhythm and sleep pressure (aka sleep debt) to recommend an ideal bedtime window. It factors in heart rate, HRV, skin temperature, and even environmental cues like room temperature or brightness (if you've got connected SmartThings devices). The goal: Improve your sleep quality, recovery and energy throughout the day.
The new Running Coach gives you a personalized training plan to help meet your goals.
The coaching isn't just for sleep; the new Galaxy Watches are also debuting a Running Coach feature. It starts with a 12-minute running assessment that scores your fitness from level 0 (beginner) to level 10 (marathon-ready). From there, it builds a personalized four-to-six-week training plan tailored to your distance or performance goals.
Similar to Apple's new Workout Buddy, Samsung's Running Coach offers real-time, contextual feedback while you're running, like pointing out a major milestone. But unlike Apple's version, Samsung's tool goes a step further by actually adapting your future training plans based on your progress.
The two new Galaxy Watches take a page out of the Galaxy Watch Ultra's playbook ditching the traditional circular watch face for a "cushion" design that has a round screen set inside a "squircle" frame (square with rounded edges). As someone who thought the Ultra looked too big and masculine for my wrist, I'm still not totally sold on the design shift. But I'm a sucker for that rotating bezel on the Classic (the Ultra's is static), so I can't help but love the look, even if it doesn't feel like it was made for me.
The Galaxy Watch 8 Classic brings back the rotating bezel in two color options: white or black.
The Classic also adopts the customizable quick-action button of the Ultra that also doubles as a crown wedges between the two navigation buttons.
Despite my preference for the sleeker, edgeless circular design of past Galaxy Watches, there may be some benefits to the new design, including a slimmer form factor. According to Samsung, the Galaxy Watch 8 is 11% slimmer and lighter than its predecessor. When trying it on, I was blown away by how light it felt on my wrist without the usual belly bump bulge of the body.
Pair that with a new band system, which reduces the gap between the watch and your wrist and you have a noticeably more comfortable fit. Thanks to the tighter sensor-to-skin contact, it's also more accurate at capturing heart rate data. This is still subject to testing, but if it holds up, it may be a justified design trade-off.
Width comparison between the Galaxy Watch 8, Galaxy Watch 8 Classic and Galaxy Watch Ultra. Both the Ultra and the Classic have the crown that doubles as an action button.
The Galaxy Watch 8 comes in silver and graphite with an aluminum frame, while the Classic opts for a stainless steel finish in just silver. Size-wise, the regular Watch 8 comes in 40mm and 44mm options, while the Classic is only available in 46mm, which looks pretty large on my [[TK]]-inch wrist and definitely leans more masculine. I can't help but miss the days when Samsung offered more feminine options like rose gold or even just plain gold, though it's been a while since those were part of the lineup.
The new Galaxy Watches are the first smartwatches to debut Google's Gemini AI assistant out of the box.
The new One UI 8 software brings a refreshed user experience that is easier to navigate. Notifications are separated by app and instant access to your six most-used apps. The Watches also takes a page from the Galaxy phone with a new "Now bar" at the bottom of the screen for quick access to active apps like timers or media controls.
But the most important software update is the addition of Gemini AI. The new Galaxy Watches are the first with Google's AI assistant built-in, bringing more complex commands and contextual understanding to your wrist. You can ask it to check your most recent running pace, start a five-mile run and launch your workout playlist simultaneously, set a timer to boil pasta based on a recipe in your notes, adjust the font size on the watch, or have it draft a text letting a friend know you're running late.
Since Gemini requires an internet connection to work, you'll need to have your phone paired nearby or use an LTE version of the watch.
Let's set expectations: Just because the Galaxy Watch 8 looks like the Ultra doesn't mean it matches the Ultra's three-day battery life. But there's still good news to share.
Samsung says the Watch 8 has an 8% larger battery than the Watch 7: 325 mAh vs. 300 mAh (for the 40mm), and 435 mAh vs. 425 mAh (for the 44mm). The Classic tops out at 445 mAh, which is still well below the Ultra's 590 mAh battery. How much that translates into real-world use remains to be seen, but any boost is welcome, especially paired with the efficiency gains from the new Wear OS 6 update.
Storage also doubles across the board, with 64GB now standard (up from 32GB), including a new Titanium Blue version of the Ultra.
This is just a first look based on hands-on time. We'll find out if these features live up to the hype when put to the test in our full review, coming soon.