TITLE: The best fitness tracker and smartwatch Prime Day deals
SOURCE: The Verge
URL: https://www.theverge.com/tech/702080/amazon-prime-day-best-fitness-tracker-smartwatch-deals-2025

Amazon Prime Day is in full swing, and we’ve been particularly struck by the deep discounts on smartwatches and fitness trackers. The Apple Watch Series 10 and Amazfit Active 2, two of the best smart… [+4978 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
We’re here to bring you good deals on smartwatches, from the Apple Watch Series 10 to the Google Pixel Watch 3.
We’re here to bring you good deals on smartwatches, from the Apple Watch Series 10 to the Google Pixel Watch 3.
If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement.
Amazon Prime Day is in full swing, and we’ve been particularly struck by the deep discounts on smartwatches and fitness trackers. The Apple Watch Series 10 and Amazfit Active 2, two of the best smartwatches we’ve tested, are down to their lowest prices ever at Amazon. We don’t expect to see their prices this low until Black Friday or Cyber Monday, but here we are.
These gadgets can help make the journey into becoming healthier a little easier by tracking your sleep, step count, heart rate, and exercise info instead of you trying to track it manually. They also allow you to check notifications from your wrist to avoid having to pick up your smartphone as often throughout the day. If you’ve been curious about giving wearables a try, you’ll find the best deals from Amazon and other retailers below. There’s no time like the present to get started on your fitness journey.
The Apple Watch Series 10 has a larger, wide-angle OLED display with up to 30 percent more screen area. It’s thinner and lighter than its predecessors, yet it charges faster and features the same fitness and wellness features. Read our review.
The Amazfit Active 2 delivers outsized value for the price. It looks spiffy and has a wide array of health tracking features, plus built-in GPS and AI chatbots to provide extra context to your data. Read our review.
Google’s new Pixel Watch 3 is bigger and brighter than its predecessor. It also features more advanced running capabilities, offline Google Maps functionality, and deeper integration with other Google devices. Read our review.
The Oura Ring 4 is slimmer and more accurate than its predecessor, while adding new AI-powered tools and longer battery life. Read our review.
The Fitbit Charge 6 features a haptic side button, an improved heart rate algorithm, turn-by-turn navigation with Google Maps, and the ability to broadcast your heart rate on certain Bluetooth gym equipment. Read our review.
The Fitbit Inspire 3 is a minimalist fitness band that delivers notifications and tracks your activity on a bright OLED screen. It lacks built-in GPS, contactless payments, and digital assistants, but offers a range of other excellent health and fitness tracking features. Read our impressions.
The Garmin Venu Sq 2 is a great replacement for a Fitbit smartwatch. Not only do they look similar, but the Venu Sq 2 has way more fitness features, long battery life, and no subscription.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.
Update, July 10th: Checked prices and availability of deals mentioned in this piece.
Sign up for Verge Deals to get deals on products we’ve tested sent to your inbox weekly.