TITLE: PKK’s jailed leader Ocalan says armed struggle against Turkiye over
SOURCE: Al Jazeera English
URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2025/7/9/pkks-ocalan-says-armed-struggle-against-turkiye-over

Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), has announced the end of the groups armed struggle against Turkiye, calling for a full shift to democratic politics.
The ja… [+1764 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
President Erdogan says winners of peace process ‘will be the whole of Turkiye – Turks, Kurds and Arabs’.
Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), has announced the end of the group’s armed struggle against Turkiye, calling for a full shift to democratic politics.
The jailed leader relayed his message via a video recording dated June, which was aired by the PKK-aligned Firat News Agency on Wednesday, describing the shift as a “historic gain”.
“This represents a voluntary transition from the phase of armed conflict to the phase of democratic politics and law,” said Ocalan, who has been in prison since 1999, but remains a hugely influential figure among Kurds in Turkiye and beyond.
He said the process of voluntary disarmament of Kurdish PKK fighters and the creation of a Turkish parliamentary committee to oversee the peace process would be “crucial”.
“Care and sensitivity are essential,” he said, adding that details of the disarmament process would be “determined and implemented swiftly”.
Ocalan’s message was released just days before the first PKK disarmament ceremony in northern Iraq.
Back in May, the PKK had already announced it was disbanding after more than 40 years of armed struggle against the Turkish state.
The announcement came two months after Ocalan, also known as “Appo” – Kurdish for Uncle – called on the group to disarm in February.
In a speech to lawmakers from his ruling party on Wednesday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that he expected imminent progress in the peace initiative and a benefit to all in the country and the wider region.
“Once the wall of terror is torn down, God willing, everything will change. More pain and tears will be prevented,” Erdogan said. “The winners of this (process) will be the whole of Turkiye – Turks, Kurds and Arabs. Then it will be our entire region.
“We hope that this auspicious process will conclude successfully as soon as possible, without any road accidents, and without it being sabotaged by dark and corrupt circles,” Erdogan added.
A spokesperson for Turkiye’s pro-Kurdish DEM party, Aysegul Dogan, said on Wednesday that the PKK’s disarmament process must be made permanent through a number of legal assurances and with the creation of mechanisms to ensure a transition to democratic politics.
Dogan added that DEM members would attend the disarmament ceremony in Sulaymaniyah, northern Iraq along with a group of PKK fighters on Friday.
For most of its history, the PKK has been labelled a “terrorist” group by Turkiye, the European Union and the United States.
Ocalan was born to a poor Kurdish farming family in 1948, in Omerli, Sanliurfa, a Kurdish-majority part of Turkiye.
It was after studying political science at Ankara University that he became politically active, founding the PKK in 1978.
Six years later, the group launched a separatist rebellion against Turkiye under his command.
More than 40,000 people were killed between 1984 and 2024, with thousands of Kurds fleeing the violence in southeastern Turkiye into cities further north.