TITLE: Confirm conspiracy theories & catch creatures with this nighttime gadget
SOURCE: Popular Science
URL: https://www.popsci.com/sponsored-content/1080p-hd-recording-mini-digital-night-vision-binoculars-sponsored-deal/

We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn more One of our biggest flaws as humans is that we cant see in the dark. Okay, so maybe thats… [+1394 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
We may earn revenue from the products available on this page and participate in affiliate programs. Learn more ›
One of our biggest flaws as humans is that we can’t see in the dark. Okay, so maybe that’s not our greatest flaw, but it’s still a pretty big one. Whether you want to watch animals gather in your backyard or catch the next Mothman, these night-vision binoculars can help remedy that fatal flaw so you can get a glimpse of what lurks beyond.
But infrared capabilities aren’t the only cool feature of this gadget. If you spot a mama possum with her whole family on her back—or an extraterrestrial being—you can take HD photos or videos with the binoculars.
Now that summer is in full swing, you can grab these mini binoculars for $89.99. But hurry—if you wait, you might miss your chance to be the first one to capture a photo of the elusive Mothman.
StackSocial prices subject to change.
_
Mini Digital Night Vision Binoculars with 1080p HD Recording
See Deal
Unlike old, clunky binoculars, these are only four inches long and fit right in your pocket, backpack, or purse. Whether you’re scouting the great beyond or relaxing in your yard, use the handy 4x digital zoom that lets you see up to 1,000 feet away, even in complete darkness.
Don’t forget the obvious perk of being able to snap 12MP photos and record 1080p videos. Everything you capture is saved to the included memory card for easy sharing. So, you know, if you capture some rare UFO footage, you can easily share it on YouTube.
Grab a pair of mini night vision binoculars for $89.99 (reg. $159.99) before they sell out.