TITLE: PlayStation Plus Subscribers Can Get Chromed Out in Cyberpunk 2077 Now
SOURCE: CNET
URL: https://www.cnet.com/tech/gaming/playstation-plus-subscribers-can-get-chromed-out-in-cyberpunk-2077-now/

When CD Projekt Red launched Cyberpunk 2077 in 2020, the game was plagued by bugs and glitches. Since then, the company has provided free updates and patches to the game to make it a fun, engaging an… [+2680 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
When CD Projekt Red launched Cyberpunk 2077 in 2020, the game was plagued by bugs and glitches. Since then, the company has provided free updates and patches to the game to make it a fun, engaging and award-winning experience. And some PlayStation Plus subscribers can now play this dystopian, sci-fi game.
PlayStation Plus is Sony's version of Xbox Game Pass, and it offers subscribers a large and constantly expanding library of games. There are three PlayStation Plus tiers -- Essential ($10 a month), Extra ($15 a month) and Premium ($18 a month) -- and each gives subscribers access to games. However, only Extra and Premium tier subscribers can access the PlayStation Plus Game Catalog.
Here are all the games Extra and Premium subscribers can play soon. You can also check out the games all PS Plus subscribers can play in July, including Diablo 4. Note, Sony will add these games to the PS Plus Game Catalog on July 15 unless otherwise noted.
Welcome to Night City, where corporations control everything, crime is around every corner, and almost everyone has cybernetic implants called chrome. You play as a local mercenary named V, and after a heist goes bad, you have to figure out a way to survive with everyone gunning for you. And if that wasn't enough, Keanu Reeves is in this game as a terrorist named Johnny Silverhand, because, well, he has a silver cybernetic hand.
PS Plus Extra and Premium subscribers can play this game now.
The game, based on the popular animated series, is coming to the PS Plus Game Catalog on Tuesday. You can play as Bandit, Chili, Bingo or Bluey as you explore areas from the show, like the Heeler house, the playground and the creek. You can also play games from the show, like Keepy Uppy and Chattermax Chase. And who knows, maybe you'll see some gray nomads while you're playing.
Science meets violence in this 1990s-inspired sci-fi survival game. You and up to five other players can choose your areas of expertise, build your scientist and explore a massive, top-secret underground complex filled with artifacts and supernatural horrors that could tear you limb from limb. And remember, safety, security and secrecy are of the utmost importance… usually.
PS Plus Extra and Premium subscribers can play this game on July 22.
PlayStation Plus Extra and Premium subscribers can play all of the games listed above, as well as the ones listed here, soon.
Banishers: Ghosts of New EdenNew World: AeternumPlanet ZooRisk of Rain 2Tropico 6Twisted Metal 3*Twisted Metal 4*
*Premium subscribers only.
For more on PlayStation Plus, here's what to know about the service and a rundown of PS Plus Extra and Premium games added in June. You can also check out the latest and upcoming games on Xbox Game Pass and Apple Arcade.