TITLE: Polar Tourists Give Positive Reviews to NASA Citizen Science in Antarctica
SOURCE: NASA
URL: https://science.nasa.gov/get-involved/citizen-science/polar-tourists-give-positive-reviews-to-nasa-citizen-science-in-antarctica/

Citizen science projects result in an overwhelmingly positive impact on the polar tourism experience. Thats according to a new paper analyzing participant experiences in the first two years of FjordP… [+1175 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
2 min read
Citizen science projects result in an overwhelmingly positive impact on the polar tourism experience. That’s according to a new paper analyzing participant experiences in the first two years of FjordPhyto, a NASA Citizen Science project..
The FjordPhyto citizen science project invites travelers onboard expedition cruise vessels to gather data and samples during the polar summer season, helping researchers understand changes in microalgae communities in response to melting glaciers. Travelers in Antarctica from November to March help collect phytoplankton and ocean data from polar regions facilitated by trained expedition guides.
The new research found that ninety-seven percent of respondents reported that participating in citizen science enriched their travel experience. The paper provides a first understanding of the impact of citizen science projects on the tourism experience.
“I was worried that I would feel guilty being a tourist in a place as remote and untouched as Antarctica,” said one anonymous FjordPhyto participant. “But being able to learn and be a part of citizen science, whilst constantly being reminded of our environmental responsibilities, made me feel less like just a visitor and more a part of keeping the science culture that Antarctica is known for alive and well.”
For more information and to sign up, visit the FjordPhyto website.
NASA and the U.S. Geological Survey have been mapping the planets since Apollo. One team…
In response to recent flooding near Kerrville, Texas, NASA deployed two aircraft to assist state…
Since launching in 2023, NASA’s Tropospheric Emissions: Monitoring of Pollution mission, or TEMPO, has been…