TITLE: 7 Things to Do When You Wake Up If You’re Trying to Lose Weight, According to Dietitians
SOURCE: Eatingwell.com
URL: https://www.eatingwell.com/things-to-do-when-you-wake-up-for-weight-loss-11768708

Reviewed by Dietitian Christa Brown, M.S., RDN, LD
Key Points
Discover things dietitians recommend you do first thing in the morning if your goal is to lose weight.
Gillean Barkyoumb is a dietitian with over a decade of experience working with brands through TV, content creation and consulting.
Losing weight is a journey that requires consistency and establishing healthy habits. Mornings are a critical time to set the tone for your day, as the habits you establish when you wake up can significantly influence your weight-loss efforts. In this article, we will explore effective morning routines that are backed by science and endorsed by registered dietitians.
Here are some practical tips that are easy to incorporate into your daily life. From the importance of hydration and morning exercise to the benefits of a protein-packed breakfast and mindfulness practices, we will cover a range of strategies that can help support your weight-loss goals. These tips are designed to be realistic, flexible and sustainable to ensure that you can maintain them in the long term—because long-term health is the ultimate goal.
Getty Images
Water makes up about 60% of your body, and it is essential for every cell to function properly. Because of this, drinking water and staying hydrated can help you reach your health goals and even support weight loss. Drinking water when you wake up can support a healthy metabolism, aid in digestion and help you stay in tune with your body’s hunger and fullness cues.
However, there is a popular myth out there that adding lemon to your water or drinking water alone in the morning will magically lead to weight loss. Like many aspects of health, there are multiple factors that contribute to weight loss—including diet, exercise, stress management and proper sleep—and the key is to find ways to incorporate a variety of healthy habits into your daily routine for results that last. So stay hydrated, but remember that it’s not the only habit you should rely on to lose weight.
Incorporating movement into your morning routine can significantly impact your weight-loss efforts—partly because you may be more likely to make it a habit. Whether it’s a brisk walk outside, a yoga session or a quick workout, morning exercise can help kick-start your metabolism and enhance your mood. Physical activity in the morning can help increase your energy levels and support a healthy metabolism throughout the rest of the day, too.
With that said, there is evidence that evening exercise also has health benefits for people with obesity. Because there is evidence that any time of day will result in positive metabolic changes, ultimately the best time to exercise is the time you'll stick with.
Outdoor exercise also provides the added benefits of fresh air and sunlight, which can improve mental well-being and help regulate the circadian rhythms that support sleep—two critical aspects of health that can impact your weight.
Starting your day with a protein-rich breakfast can help you feel full for longer and reduce cravings later in the day. This is in part because protein promotes satiety and stabilizes blood sugar levels. “Making sure you are eating a breakfast rich in protein and fiber can keep you feeling satiated and full, as well as making you less likely to overeat later in the day,” says Crystal Orozco, RD, owner of Vida Nutrition Consulting.
Examples of protein-packed breakfast options include Greek yogurt, eggs, bowls or sandwiches with whole grains and smoothies. Check out some high-protein breakfast recipes that range from sweet to savory for more inspiration—they each have at least 15 grams per serving.
Taking a few minutes in the morning to make a plan for your meals can help set you up for success. Knowing what you'll eat throughout the day makes healthier choices easier and can even save you money on takeout. Meal planning can also help you include a variety of nutrients throughout the day that your body needs to feel its best.
At each meal, try to include a source of protein (like chicken, tuna, tofu or beans), carbohydrates (like whole grains, fruits or vegetables) and healthy fats (like nuts, seeds, avocado or olive oil). This formula can help you make filling and nourishing meals that can easily be customized to your flavor preferences. To make a balanced snack, choose a protein plus a source of healthy fats or produce (any fruits and vegetables). For example, you could enjoy hummus with cucumber slices, a hard-boiled egg with carrots or a Greek yogurt bowl with fruit for a filling and nourishing between-meal bite.
Starting your day with mindfulness practices—such as meditation or deep-breathing exercises—can help reduce stress, which is a crucial component of a successful weight-loss journey.
Jaime Bachtell-Shelbert, RDN, owner of Wholly Nourished, encourages clients to have a really strong “why” to carry them on their weight-loss journey. “Doing a mindfulness practice each morning to reinforce that ‘why’ can be really powerful. Take a few minutes in the morning, about three to five, to do deep-breathing exercises while focusing on your why and setting your intentions for the day,” says Bachtell-Shelbert.
Other mindfulness practices can include meditation, journaling, stretching or even going for a walk while listening to a book or podcast. Choose what works best for you, as it’ll make you more likely to keep up with it for the long haul.
Starting your day with drinks that are high in added sugar—like soda, sweetened energy drinks or sugar-sweetened coffee or tea drinks—can lead to energy crashes and increased hunger later on. Sugar-sweetened beverages can be high in calories and spike your blood sugar levels, but don’t keep you feeling full for long, which can lead to weight gain over time. The rapid rise in blood sugar followed by a sharp drop can leave you feeling tired and hungry shortly after consumption. This cycle can create a pattern of reaching for more high-added-sugar or high-calorie snacks to boost energy levels, which could conflict with your weight-loss efforts.
Opt to start your day with low- or no-added-sugar beverages such as water, seltzer or unsweetened tea or coffee. If you currently prefer sweetened coffee or tea, try to gradually cut back on the sweetener. Over time, cutting back your intake can make a big difference.
Fiber is a crucial nutrient that can help support weight loss. It aids in digestion, promotes satiety and helps maintain steady blood sugar levels. Adding fiber to your breakfast can help you feel full longer and supports a healthy gut, which is important for healthy digestion and more. Incorporating fiber-rich foods like fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds and whole grains into your breakfast can help you reap those benefits.
Incorporating these habits into your morning routine can provide a strong foundation for your weight-loss journey. From staying hydrated and eating a balanced breakfast to practicing mindfulness, these strategies are backed by science and experts in nutrition. Remember, any new habit is formed from consistently practicing it—and small changes can lead to significant results over time.
Paz-Graniel, I. Becerra-Tomas, N. Babio, N. et al. (2021) Baseline drinking water consumption and changes in body weight and waist circumference at 2-years of follow-up in a senior Mediterranean population. Clinical Nutrition. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2021.05.014
Sabag A, Ahmadi M, Francois M, et al. Timing of moderate to vigorous physical activity, mortality, cardiovascular disease, and microvascular disease in adults with obesity. Diabetes Care. 2024. doi:10.2337/dc23-2448
Dighriri A, Timraz M, Rosaini D, et al. The impact of the time of day on metabolic responses to exercise in adults: a systematic and meta-analysis review. Chronobiology International. 2024. doi:10.1080/07420528.2024.2419867
Moon, J. and Koh, G. (2020) Clinical evidence and mechanisms of high-protein diet-induced weight loss. Journal of Obesity & Metabolic Syndrome. doi: 10.7570/jomes20028
Huang, Y. et al. (2023) Dietary Sugar Consumption and Health: Umbrella Review. The BMJ. doi: 10.1136/bmj-2022-071609
Kelly, R.K. et al. (2023) Increased dietary fiber is associated with weight loss among full plate living program participants. Frontiers. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2023.1110748