TITLE: Apple Didn’t Approve, but Amazon Clears Out AirPods Pro 2 at a Record Low for Prime Day
SOURCE: Gizmodo.com
URL: https://gizmodo.com/apple-didnt-approve-but-amazon-is-clearing-out-airpods-pro-2-at-a-record-low-prime-day-2000624565

AirPods Pro 2 are in stores just a year but already they set the benchmark by which other wireless earbuds with active noise cancellation are judged. On the subject of sound quality, nothing else com… [+2871 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
AirPods Pro 2 are in stores just a year but already they set the benchmark by which other wireless earbuds with active noise cancellation are judged. On the subject of sound quality, nothing else comes close to holding a candle right now.
Normally these earbuds cost $249, but Amazon is offering them over 40% off during Prime Day, reducing the price to as low as $149. This deal is for everyone (and not just Prime members) and it is a rarity for an Apple device. Remember, Apple never really offers straight discounts and many are waiting for Prime Day or Black Friday to get Apple devices at a markdown.
See at Amazon
The AirPods Pro 2 offer an entire hearing health experience, starting with a science-based hearing test to active hearing protection as good as clinic-grade.
The intelligent noise control technology pushes it even further with active noise cancellation that takes away up to twice as much background noise as before. Transparency mode tunes you in to what’s going on around you, and adaptive audio combines noise cancellation with transparency for the best listening under any conditions. Conversation awareness is another intelligent feature and it knows to turn the volume down automatically so you never miss a word when you’re speaking with someone nearby.
Personalized spatial audio is one of the unique features that molds the sound to your unique ear shape and uses dynamic head tracking to deliver a surround-sound immersion: You can listen to a few select songs, TV programs and movies in Dolby Atmos, enhancing your entertainment to be more real than ever. It’s easy and simple to control: swipe, press, or hold the stem to manage playback, and Siri interactions for hands-free.
With the Apple-designed H2 chip and a driver tuned by Apple, you’ll have incredibly immersive sound with crisp highs and deep bass. Voice isolation technology results in your calls sounding as distinct as they do while walking down a quiet street. If you’re looking for earbuds that provide high-quality audio for music, podcasts, and calling, these Apple earbuds are unbeatable.
They also come equipped with four sets of silicone tips of different sizes so that you can pick the perfect fit for your ears. The tips create an acoustic seal that prevents noise and keeps earbuds in position even during high-intensity workout or prolonged listening. The earbuds and MagSafe charging case are both IP54 certified for water, sweat, and dust resistance.
Battery life is also a plus with up to six hours of playtime on one battery with active noise cancellation enabled and up to thirty hours total with the case. The case itself is full of functionality and includes precision finding, a built-in speaker, and a durable lanyard loop for easy carrying. It is supported by several charging styles, including Apple Watch and MagSafe chargers, USB-C, and Qi-certified wireless chargers.
For only $149, AirPods Pro 2 are now as affordable as most cheap earbuds without sacrificing any of it. Make sure you grab yours before they run out of stock.
See at Amazon
Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
News from the future, delivered to your present.
Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.