TITLE: Amazon Slashes Anker Solix C1000 Prices by 45%, Now the Cheapest 1800W Portable Power for Prime Day
SOURCE: Gizmodo.com
URL: https://gizmodo.com/amazon-slashes-anker-solix-c1000-prices-by-45-now-the-cheapest-1800w-portable-power-for-prime-day-2000626598

Portable power stations have expanded exponentially in popularity during the past few years, from summer camping and back-yard barbecue gatherings to winter electrical outages. A reliable backup sour… [+2195 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Portable power stations have expanded exponentially in popularity during the past few years, from summer camping and back-yard barbecue gatherings to winter electrical outages. A reliable backup source of power is something that anyone can benefit from and these units are demonstrating their value in all forms of use.
But the technology within portable power stations makes them an expensive upfront cost. Anker is known for its expertise in charging technologies and it has been working to make such products more accessible. For Prime Day, Amazon is taking it a step further by cutting the price of Anker SOLIX C1000 power station to its all-time low: With a massive 46% discount, this high-capacity one can now be had for just $429, down from its regular price of $799. This is a Prime member benefit, but it can be used by anyone with the free 30-day trial.
See at Amazon
Anker SOLIX C1000 is a lightweight portable power station that will keep your key devices and appliances running properly wherever you are. With a powerful 1800W output (and a 2400W surge), it can supply power to anything from laptops and phones to small fridges and power tools. The on-board 1056Wh LiFePO4 battery pack has exemplary lifespan with its 3,000-cycle rating suitable for a 10-year span.
Its UltraFast charging ability is one of the highlights of the SOLIX C1000: With an AC input and the UltraFast mode enabled via the Anker app, you can charge up to 80% battery in just 43 minutes and a full battery in under an hour. That speedy charging capability has you never having to wait around long to be back in business. For those with a greener bent, the SOLIX C1000 is also solar-compatible and can accept up to 600W of fast solar recharging (solar panels are sold separately). With the right solar panel, you can fully charge the unit in just 1.8 hours.
It comes with 11 ports, including AC outlets, USB-A, USB-C, and an automobile socket so you can power or charge nearly any device you bring along. With the SurgePad technology offered by Anker, the unit can supply a surge capacity of 2400W and allow you to utilize 99% of home appliances in safety.
Weighing in at slightly less than 28 pounds and 15% shorter than most other 1kWh units, it will nest compactly in your truck or RV.
If you’re a Prime member, you must hurry to buy one of the best portable power stations out there.
See at Amazon
Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
News from the future, delivered to your present.
Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.