TITLE: We’re Blown Away by This Dyson Purifier Cool Fan Deal Cutting Nearly 50% for Amazon Prime Day
SOURCE: Gizmodo.com
URL: https://gizmodo.com/were-blown-away-by-this-dyson-purifier-cool-fan-deal-cutting-nearly-50-for-amazon-prime-day-2000625908

It’s a fair guess that the higher powers at Amazon have been watching the news, because the oppressive heat and humidity blanketing much of the country and the wildfires and other air-quality issues … [+2848 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
It’s a fair guess that the higher powers at Amazon have been watching the news, because the oppressive heat and humidity blanketing much of the country and the wildfires and other air-quality issues have us seeking relief in the form of the Dyson Purifier Cool TP07 Smart Air Purifier and Fan, which is a Prime Day treasure for just $350 (-46%). The Dyson TP07 normally sells for $650 and earns rave reviews for its ability to eliminate pollutants while it cools, and its array of smart features.
Dyson’s signature elegant design is in all its glory with the Purifier Cool TP07, which stands 41 inches tall but only 7.7 by 8 inches around, and weighs a scant 11 pounds so it can be easily moved from room to room as needed. Dyson packs this compact body with incredible power to draw in and purify air at a rapid rate while expelling clean, cool air as the fan oscillates at up to 350 degrees so the whole room gets much-needed comfort and relief from heat and allergens.
See at Amazon
The Dyson Purifier Cool TP07 is a technological marvel, able to automatically sense pollutants as small as 0.1 micron, then capture and trap them within the HEPA H13 filter. In fact, the entire unit is fully sealed to ensure none of those particles escape. For anyone who struggles with allergies or respiratory issues, having the Dyson Purifier Cool TP07 eliminate the dust, smoke, pollen, and other pollutants from a room is a true luxury.
The Dyson can do its job in a 100 square foot room, pulling in and eliminating pollutants from afar, thanks to Dyson’s Air Multiplier technology. It brings in air and projects it with great power, with no blades or external moving parts that just collect dust and dirt rather than removing them. The fan also lets you know when it’s time to change the filter on its built-in LCD screen or on the MyDyson app, and making the swap is fast and easy.
Regular fans provide some relief, but it’s fleeting because they’re only moving the same hot air around the room. The Dyson Purifier Cool TP07 actively reduces the temperature of the air it takes in and sends it out in refreshing, cooler condition. With the power of Dyson’s Air Multiplier, it cycles a room’s air quickly and repeatedly, cutting down the heat with amazing speed and effectiveness.
The Dyson Purifier Cool TP07 can be controlled with the MyDyson app, which also tells you the air quality readings detected by the fan and when it’s time to swap out the filter. It’s compatible with Siri, Alexa, and Hey Google for hands-free control, it has timer settings between 30 minutes and 8 hours, and even a nighttime setting that engages a quiet mode and dims the display.
There’s no reason to suffer silently in the heat and thick air of a brutal summer, not when Amazon’s running a cool Prime Day deal that takes a full $300 off the price of the powerhouse Dyson Purifier Cool TP07 smart air purifier and fan. Save 46% now and turn any room in your home into a cool, comfortable sanctuary for just $350.
See at Amazon
Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
News from the future, delivered to your present.
Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.