TITLE: For Day 2 of Prime Day, Amazon Drops the Price Even Further on Our Favorite Galaxy S25+ Phone
SOURCE: Gizmodo.com
URL: https://gizmodo.com/for-day-2-of-prime-day-amazon-drops-the-price-even-further-on-our-favorite-galaxy-s25-phone-2000626434

Amazon increased the pace of its Prime Day sales from Day 1 to Day 2 with even more aggressive discounts on some of the year’s hottest technology. Yesterday’s emphasis was on the Samsung Galaxy S25 U… [+2514 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
Amazon increased the pace of its Prime Day sales from Day 1 to Day 2 with even more aggressive discounts on some of the year’s hottest technology. Yesterday’s emphasis was on the Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra, but today’s is a surprise that’s even greater: the Galaxy S25+ is at a record-low price.
This is the 256GB model everyone desires since the stock S25 doesn’t have the same draw, and it’s now priced at only $699 which is a whopping $300 reduction from its initial $999 price. This Galaxy S25+ has ever been cheaper and it’s even lower than what’s available on Samsung’s own site. The catch? This deal is exclusive to Prime members, but you can obtain it with a free 30-day trial if you are not a member yet.
See at Amazon
The Galaxy S25+ is a good choice if you need an elite Android experience: The phone on sale at Amazon is available unlocked for any carrier which gives you full freedom to choose the one you like. It comes with a lavish 256GB storage and 12GB RAM for seamless multi-tasking and more than enough room for your photos. The Snapdragon 8 Elite processor from Qualcomm runs at a whopping 4.47 GHz and provides scorching speeds at any time. Combined with Samsung’s One UI 7 on Android 15, the phone is amazingly easy to handle.
One of the biggest strengths of Galaxy S25+ is its AI-powered camera system: Its cutting-edge Night Mode allows you to capture clear and colorful photos in low light while Audio Eraser minimizes background noise in your recordings. Whether you’re capturing a nighttime cityscape or an indoor concert, you’ll be able to relive your favorite moments with clarity and less distraction. Portrait photography is also elevated to great heights with AI-facilitated fine-tuning of the skin tones.
The 6.7-inch ProScaler display is perfectly clear (and stunning) and its 1440 x 3120 resolution brings out the rich hues and fine details to make everything from movies to games look simply stunning. The wide immersive screen makes for best-in-class watch movies and productivity. And with a lasting 4900mAh battery, you get all-day power even with hard use. Obviously, it also support fast charging.
Samsung has also preloaded the Galaxy S25+ with clever software features designed to make your day easier: Brief now anticipates what you require beforehand so that you don’t have to ask, offering helpful reminders and notifications to keep you a step ahead of the rest. The phone’s AI assistant can do multiple things at once—looking up a restaurant and sending the details to your friend via text while all happening with just one command.
This all-time low price won’t last long, make sure you don’t miss your chance to grab Samsung’s most popular phone.
See at Amazon
Get the best tech, science, and culture news in your inbox daily.
News from the future, delivered to your present.
Please select your desired newsletters and submit your email to upgrade your inbox.