TITLE: This Kindle changed e-reading forever, and now it's cheaper than it's EVER been during Prime Day
SOURCE: Android Central
URL: https://www.androidcentral.com/tablets/kindle/this-kindle-changed-e-reading-forever-and-now-its-cheaper-than-its-ever-been-during-prime-day

Although it seems like they completely dominate the e-reader space, we actually don't see deals on Kindles very often. Fortunately, it appears that Amazon Prime Day is attempting to change all of tha… [+958 chars]

FULL CONTENT:
The first color Kindle gets its first major discount.
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Although it seems like they completely dominate the e-reader space, we actually don't see deals on Kindles very often. Fortunately, it appears that Amazon Prime Day is attempting to change all of that by slashing 36% off the Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition, dropping the price of the tablet down to its lowest point ever.
Amazon Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition 32GB: $279.99 $179.99 with Prime at Amazon
The Amazon Kindle Colorsoft is a full color e-reader with an intelligent 7-inch display and great battery life. Members who order the e-reader during the four-day Prime Day sale will receive a whopping 36% off their order. We've seen a lot of great Prime Day Kindle deals this week, but this is easily one of the best yet.
The Kindle Colorsoft boasts a 7-inch color display that automatically adjusts to meet your lighting needs, whether you're reading outdoors or in the dark. It also features up to eight weeks of battery life, wireless charging support, and a sturdy, waterproof construction.
First unveiled back in October 2024, the Colorsoft was the first full-color Kindle e-reader released by Amazon, and it understandably raised a bit of a ruckus in the industry. After all, underdog e-reader manufacturers like Kobo and BOOX had been producing full color devices for a while, and now they had to compete against the "Big A" with technology that they had perfected long before. And indeed, once a giant company like Amazon gets involved in a technology like this, there's no going back to simple black-and-white e-readers.
Kobo Libra Colour: $249.99 $209.99 with Prime at Amazon
If you're looking for something a little different, the 7-inch Kobo Libra Colour is another great option, boasting a waterproof design, audiobook support, and features like Dark Mode. Buy the e-reader during Prime Day and you'll score an excellent 16% discount.
Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android
After almost a decade of working in the e-commerce space, Patrick Farmer (he/him) began his career at Android Central as a Deals and Commerce Writer before moving into a new role as AC's eCommerce Editor in 2023. When he's not hunting down the best deals and offering shopping advice for our readers, you'll often find him listening to music, camping out at a brewery, or treating his cat like a human child.
You must confirm your public display name before commenting
Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name.